---
title: 'Electromagnetic Dipoles'
date: 2024-01-29
permalink: /notes/EMdipoles/
tags:
  - Classical Physics
  - Mathematics
  - Electromagnetism
---
Overview:
----
This paper discusses Electromagnetic dipoles and their unique traits.

Abstract:
----
This paper discusses Electromagnetic dipoles. In classical electromagnetism, there are specific ways to handle electromagnetic fields in a static state within materials. This paper briefly explores these methods in "<i>Section 2</i>". Although these methods are effective, there is a common misunderstanding about the precision needed in the mathematical framework of the theory, which is often overlooked in standard electromagnetism courses. This oversight raises the question, "Why can electric dipoles create an effective monopole, but magnetic dipoles cannot, despite producing similar fields?" This issue is examined in "<i>Section 3</i>" of the paper. The paper revisits the fields generated by electromagnetic dipoles and demonstrates that using "<i>potentials</i>" rather than "<i>fields</i>" helps avoid these inconsistencies.
[Download PDF](http://sohrabmaleki.github.io/files/ElectromagneticDipoles.pdf)

PS:
----
In the "<i>Final Instance</i>" part, there is a mistake negleting the effect of bound surface-charges. applying this effect, the total magnetic field is zero everywhere which leads to the fact that if you attempt to construct this magnetization using dipoles arrangement, they all cancel eachother and produce no effective field.